README.md, before:

# Model Context Protocol Client for MLB Data

This module implements an MCP Client that asks an Anthropic LLM -
[Claude Haiku 3.5](https://www.anthropic.com/claude/haiku) is the assumption -
to provide trade recommendations for a Major League Team.  It is designed to
work with the [MCP Potluck Server] (https://github.com/jpowersbaseball/mcppotluck),
but could likely get interesting results with any baseball statistics tools made
available via an SSE-based MCP Server.

## Table of contents

- Purpose
- Installation
- Configuration
- Output


## Purpose

The actual purpose of this module was to learn how to build an MCP Client.
The real-world use case that inspired it was a desire to make an LLM
that was trained in 2023 on data collected in 2022 (such as Clause Haiku 3.5)
but successfully answer complex questions about the 2025 MLB season.


## Installation

For now, this module runs as a CLI tool, and requires no installation
beyond:

```bash
   
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

To run, you must have access to a running MCP server, and a configuration file,
described below.  There is a test operation (test) and a trade recommendation 
operation (trades):

```bash
   
   python -m mlbchat --operation test --config [[config.json]]
```

```bash
   
   python -m mlbchat --operation trades --config [[config.json]] --team "Washington Nationals"
```


## Configuration

The module will read your Anthropic credentials and the MCP server endpoint
you want to use from a JSON configuration file with very specific expectations
of keys and structure.  An example:

```json
   
   {
   "claude":
     {
     "api_key": "YOUR-API-KEY-HERE",
     "version": "2023-06-01",
     "model": "claude-3-5-haiku-20241022"
     },
   "baseballmcp":
     {
     "server": "http://127.0.0.1:8080"
     }
   }
```


## Output

The module is currently very verbose and writes results to standard output
in a non-machine readable format.

Three attempts to get trade recommendations are made:

- Simpleton: A very basic prompt with no context other than the team name

- Role-based: A system prompt describing the background and priorities of an MLB GM, followed by a detailed prompt for recommendations

- Tool-using: The role-based prompts along with all the tools described by the MCP Server.

The tool-using transcript is produced at each interactions, and then re-output
in its final state at the end of the char.  During the interaction, if the LLM
mentions 'Would you like me to' or 'look up specific players', a canned user
response is sent saying (essentially) 'Yes, please do.'

The tool-using chat will cut off after 10 messages have been sent (roughly, as
Haiku sometimes sends multi-part messages).  This can be changed in the following
line of baseball_client.py:

```python

   if queries_spent > 10:
```

### Current maintainers

- [Joshua Powers (jpowersbaseball)](https://github.com/jpowersbaseball/mlbchat)

Commit message:

Modified the tool-using scenario to have 3 canned prompts
Moved some functions to helpers.py to clean up the code a bit.

README.md, after:

# Model Context Protocol Client for MLB Data

This module implements an MCP Client that asks an Anthropic LLM -
[Claude Haiku 3.5](https://www.anthropic.com/claude/haiku) is the assumption -
to provide trade recommendations for a Major League Team.  It is designed to
work with the [MCP Potluck Server] (https://github.com/jpowersbaseball/mcppotluck),
but could likely get interesting results with any baseball statistics tools made
available via an SSE-based MCP Server.

## Table of contents

- Purpose
- Installation
- Configuration
- Output


## Purpose

The actual purpose of this module was to learn how to build an MCP Client.
The real-world use case that inspired it was a desire to make an LLM
that was trained in 2023 on data collected in 2022 (such as Clause Haiku 3.5)
but successfully answer complex questions about the 2025 MLB season.


## Installation

For now, this module runs as a CLI tool, and requires no installation
beyond:

```bash
   
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

To run, you must have access to a running MCP server, and a configuration file,
described below.  There is a test operation (test) and a trade recommendation 
operation (trades):

```bash
   
   python -m mlbchat --operation test --config [[config.json]]
```

```bash
   
   python -m mlbchat --operation trades --config [[config.json]] --team "Washington Nationals"
```


## Configuration

The module will read your Anthropic credentials and the MCP server endpoint
you want to use from a JSON configuration file with very specific expectations
of keys and structure.  An example:

```json
   
   {
   "claude":
     {
     "api_key": "YOUR-API-KEY-HERE",
     "version": "2023-06-01",
     "model": "claude-3-5-haiku-20241022"
     },
   "baseballmcp":
     {
     "server": "http://127.0.0.1:8080"
     }
   }
```


## Output

The module is currently very verbose and writes results to standard output
in a non-machine readable format.

Three attempts to get trade recommendations are made:

- Simpleton: A very basic prompt with no context other than the team name

- Role-based: A system prompt describing the background and priorities of an MLB GM, followed by a detailed prompt for recommendations

- Tool-using: The role-based prompts along with all the tools described by the MCP Server.

The tool-using transcript is produced at each interactions, and then re-output
in its final state at the end of the char.  During the interaction, two canned 
prompts are used to first ask for general trade advice and then for specific
trade candidates, targets and partners.

The tool-using chat will cut off after 10 messages have been sent (roughly, as
Haiku sometimes sends multi-part messages).  This can be changed in the following
line of baseball_client.py:

```python

   if queries_spent > 10:
```

### Current maintainers

- [Joshua Powers (jpowersbaseball)](https://github.com/jpowersbaseball/mlbchat)
